
!!remove CLINICAL HISTORY:  History of migraines, followup of T2 hyperintensity in the
left temporal lobe and periventricular white matter.

COMPARISON:  MRI of the 12/10/2014.

TECHNIQUE:  MRI of the brain was done pre and post administration of 14 cc of
intravenous gadolinium.  Multiplanar MPR and MP-RAGE images were provided.

MRI BRAIN:  Periventricular white matter hyperintensities, which are
non-enhancing are again seen and are unchanged in the size and distribution
since 12/10/2014. The non enhancing hyperintensity within the left temporal
lobe lesion is slightly smaller compared to prior study.  There is no
hemorrhage, mass effect, edema, acute infarction, or hydrocephalus. 
Ventricles and sulci are normal in caliber and configuration.  The principal
vascular flow voids are preserved.  Globes and soft tissues are unremarkable. 
Paranasal sinuses and mastoid air cells are well aerated.

IMPRESSION:
1.  Stable hyperintensities within the periventricular white matter without
enhancement.  The overall appearance is compatible with but not specific for
multiple sclerosis.
2.  Decrease in size of the left temporal lobe lesion making neoplasm
unlikely, but given the lesions in the remainder of the brain, it is
suggestive of an MS plaque.Recommend attention on follow up images. !!remove  EXAMINATION:  MR HEAD W AND W/O CONTRAST

INDICATION:  80 year old woman with Incidental note made of an arachnoid cyst
versus cisterna magna in the posterior fossa.  // please eval DWI
sequence

TECHNIQUE:  MRI of the brain is performed and includes the following
sequences: sagittal T-weighted, axial fast spin echo T2-weighted, axial FLAIR,
axial diffusion weighted and axial gradient echo images. The T1 weighted
images were repeated after the administration of intravenous gadolinium
contrast.  Sagittal MPRAGE and multiplanar reformations were provided.

COMPARISON:  Head CT dated 12/10/2014.

FINDINGS: 

In comparison with the prior CT of the head dated 12/10/2014, again there is
a prominent cisterna magna versus arachnoid cyst, measuring approximately
34 x 59 mm in sagittal projection (image 11, series 4), there is mild
remodeling of the inner table of the occipital bone and thin septation
favoring arachnoid cyst, the diffusion-weighted sequence is normal with no
evidence of slow diffusion to indicate epidermoid lesion.  The ventricles are
normal in size and configuration with no evidence of hydrocephalus.  There is
no acute infarction, intracranial hemorrhage, extracerebral fluid collection,
midline shift or mass effect. The cerebral volume is appropriate for the
patient's stated age.  5 x 2.5 mm small focus of T2 and FLAIR high signal
intensity is noted in the subcortical white matter of the left frontal lobe
(image 18, series 8), which is nonspecific and may represent chronic gliotic
area.  The major vascular flow voids are present and demonstrate normal
distribution, there is no evidence of abnormal enhancement. The orbits are
unremarkable, the paranasal sinuses and mastoid air cells are clear.

IMPRESSION: 

1.  Prominent cisterna magna versus arachnoid cyst as described detail
above, with no evidence of slow diffusion.  A thin septation within this cyst
and remodeling of the occipital bone favors a possible arachnoid cyst. There
is no evidence of abnormal enhancement.

2.  5 x 2.5 mm, small focus of high T2 and FLAIR signal intensity is noted in
the right frontal lobe as described detail above, which is nonspecific and may
represent a small gliotic focus, this finding is of doubtful clinical
Significance. !!remove MRI OF THE BRAIN WITH GADOLINIUM

HISTORY:  Right frontal meningioma.

TECHNIQUE:  Only post-gadolinium images were obtained for pre-surgical
planning.

Comparison is made with multiple prior studies including 12/10/2014.

FINDINGS:

Again noted is a large right inferior frontal lobe mass with surrounding edema
which is dural based.  Appearance is most suggestive of a meningioma.

No other lesions are seen.

IMPRESSION:

No significant change in size of left frontal meningioma with surrounding
edema and shift of midline to the left. ! EXAMINATION:  MR HEAD W AND W/O CONTRAST.

INDICATION:  80 year old man with metastatic alveolar sarcoma here with
headaches  // eval current burden of metastases.

TECHNIQUE:  MRI of the brain is performed and includes the following
sequences: sagittal T2-weighted, axial fast spin echo T2-weighted, axial FLAIR,
axial diffusion weighted and axial gradient echo images. The T1 weighted
images were repeated after the administration of intravenous gadolinium
contrast.  Sagittal MPRAGE with multiplanar reformations were provided.

COMPARISON:  Multiple prior head CT and MRI examinations of the head, the most
recent MRI of the head dated 12/10/2014.

FINDINGS: 

In comparison with the most recent MRI examination,  there is slight increased
in size of the left frontal dural based enhancing lesion, measuring
approximately 17.6 x 22.6 mm in transverse dimension and previously 14.7 x
19.9 mm.  Additionally there is increased vasogenic edema noted on the FLAIR
images (image 11, series 8, and prior FLAIR image 11, series 7.), causing mild
mass effect and effacement of the left frontal ventricular horn as
demonstrated on the image 13, series 11.  The enhancing lesion identified in
the right centrum semiovale abutting the posterior aspect of the right lateral
ventricle appears is slightly smaller and demonstrates susceptibility areas,
measuring approximately 14.8 x 15.5 mm in transverse dimension and previously
18.8 x 17.3 mm.  The lesion in the left cerebellar hemisphere remains
unchanged and measures approximately 5 x 5 mm in transverse dimension (image
3, series 11).  The previously noted enhancing lesion on the right cerebellar
hemisphere appears slightly larger, measuring approximately 3.4 mm in
transverse dimension (image 34, series 1000b), previously measuring 1.7 mm.
The major vascular flow voids are patent and demonstrate normal distribution. 
The orbits are unremarkable, the paranasal sinuses and the mastoid air cells
are clear.

IMPRESSION: 

1.  Slightly larger left frontal dural-based enhancing lesion with increased
vasogenic edema, causing mild mass effect in the left frontal ventricular horn
as described above.

2.  Slightly smaller right centrum semiovale enhancing lesion with new areas
of susceptibility, suggesting tumoral hemorrhage and necrosis.

3.  Unchanged right cerebellar hemisphere nodular enhancing lesion, measuring
approximately 5 x 5 mm in transverse dimension.

4.  Slightly larger right cerebellar hemisphere pontine enhancing lesion,
measuring approximately 3.4 mm in transverse dimension, no new enhancing
lesions are identified. !!remove EXAMINATION:  MRI brain with and without gadolinium.

INDICATION:  Status post left craniotomy for evacuation of acute on chronic
large subdural hematoma on Tuesday. Left-sided plegia.

TECHNIQUE:  Multiplanar, multisequence MRI of the brain was performed with and
without gadolinium.

12/10/2014 CT brain, 12/12/2014 CT brain, both without contrast.

FINDINGS:

There is diffusely low signal intensity within the calvarial and upper
cervical spine bone marrow.  Endotracheal tube is partially visualized.

There has been continued slight interval decrease in mass effect, and
rightward midline shift of the septum pellucidum measures approximately 9 mm
today, decreased from 21 mm preoperatively and slightly decreased from 10 mm
on yesterday's postoperative CT.  Other post-operative changes are again
demonstrated including pneumocephalus and a residual left extra-axial
collection which is similar in size to yesterday's CT, approximately 13 mm in
greatest thickness, extending over the left convexity.  The amount of
pneumocephalus has decreased slightly.

There has been continued decrease in size of the previously trapped right
lateral ventricle, and there remains marked effacement of the left lateral
ventricle.  FLAIR hyperintense signal within the right atrial and occipital
periventricular white matter suggestive of transependymal edema, as seen on
the prior CT, has hypodensity.  Expected post-operative changes are seen
involving the left scalp as well.

There is acute infarct involving the anterior left temporal lobe, extending
medially, with smaller scattered infarcts within the right subinsular white
matter.  A smaller infarct is seen in the left posterior temporal/anterior
parietal region.

There is no evidence of new hemorrhage compared to the recent CT.

Major intracranial flow voids are preserved.  There is expected mild
peripheral enhancement along the resection cavity.

There is underlying prominence of the ventricles, cisterns and sulci, somewhat
advanced for age, suggestive of volume loss.

IMPRESSION:
1.  Acute infarct involving the anterior aspect of the left temporal lobe and
smaller infarct within the left subinsular white matter and left putamen. 
Smaller infarcts are also seen in the left posterior temporal/anterior
parietal cortex inferiorly and within the adjacent white matter.

2.  Expected changes from recent left craniotomy for subdural hematoma
evacuation with slight interval decrease in amount of pneumocephalus and
slight interval decrease in mass effect, when compared to the recent
postoperative CT.  There remains rightward midline shift of the septum
pellucidum, and enlargement of the right lateral ventricle which has improved
slightly compared to prior.

!!remove EXAMINATION:  MR HEAD W AND W/O CONTRAST

INDICATION:  80 year old man with T-Cell Lymphoma with 3 days of occassional
word finding  // ? mass, bleed

TECHNIQUE:  Sagittal and axial T1 weighted imaging were performed. After
administration of 9 mL of Gadavist intravenous contrast, axial imaging was
performed with gradient echo, FLAIR, diffusion, and T1 technique. Sagittal
MPRAGE imaging was performed and re-formatted in axial and coronal
orientations.

COMPARISON:  MRI of the brain from 12/10/2014.

FINDINGS: 

Since the prior study from 12/10/2014, there has been interval development
of small foci of increased signal intensity within the globus pallidus and
posterior limb of the internal capsule on the left on T2 and
diffusion-weighted images (402: 15, 17).  No abnormal signal intensity is
identified on corresponding ADC map.

No foci of pathologic postcontrast enhancement are identified.  Vascular flow
voids are preserved.  There is no evidence of intracranial hemorrhage, edema,
masses, mass effect, or midline shift.   The ventricles and sulci are normal
in caliber and configuration.  The orbits are unremarkable, as are the
craniofacial soft tissues.

IMPRESSION:


1. Interval development of T2/diffusion signal hyperintensities in the right
globus pallidus and posterior limb of the internal capsule since the prior
study from 12/10/2014.  Given signal normalization on corresponding ADC
map, these findings are compatible with subacute infarction.
2. No evidence of intracranial hemorrhage or mass.

!!remove
STUDY:  MRI of the head with and without contrast.

CLINICAL INDICATION:  80y/o woman with first GTC seizure, evaluate for
structural abnormalities.

COMPARISON:  Prior head CT dated 12/10/2014.

TECHNIQUE:  Sagittal T1 FLAIR, axial T2, axial magnetic susceptibility, and
axial diffusion-weighted images were obtained.  Sagittal FLAIR and sagittal
MP-RAGE with gadolinium contrast, multiplanar reconstructions with gadolinium
were provided in coronal projection, high-resolution images throughout the
temporal lobes were also provided in T2 and FLAIR sequences.

FINDINGS:  The ventricles, sulci, and cisterns are age appropriate.  There is
no mass effect, midline shift, hemorrhage or extra-axial fluid collection. 
There is no decreased diffusion to indicate acute/subacute infarct.  The
corpus callosum is normally formed.  There is normal pattern of myelination. 
There is no evidence of structural abnormality, malformation of cortical
development or heterotopia.  The major vascular flow voids are patent and
demonstrate normal distribution.  There is no evidence of abnormal
enhancement.  The high-resolution images throughout the temporal lobes are
normal with no evidence of mesial temporal sclerosis.

There is mild mucosal thickening at the floor of the right maxillary sinus,
likely representing a mucous retention cyst.  The orbits and the mastoid air
cells are unremarkable.

IMPRESSION:
1.  Essentially normal MRI of the brain, without evidence of mass lesion,
infarct or mesial temporal sclerosis.

2.  Mucosal thickening at the floor of the left maxillary sinus, likely
consistent with a mucous retention cyst.
!!remove

EXAM:  MRI brain.

CLINICAL INFORMATION:  Patient with anaplastic astrocytoma status post
resection, radiation, and chemotherapy, assess for interval change.

TECHNIQUE:  T1 sagittal and axial and FLAIR T2 susceptibility and diffusion
axial images were obtained before gadolinium.  T1 axial and MP-RAGE sagittal
images acquired following gadolinium.  Arterial spin-labeled and dynamic
susceptibility perfusion images of the brain were acquired.  Comparison was
made with the MRI of 12/10/2014.

FINDINGS:  Postoperative changes are again seen in the right frontal region
with an area of low signal and surrounding FLAIR hyperintensity is not
significantly changed since the previous study except they are less apparent. 
Following gadolinium, no abnormal enhancement is seen in this region or in
other parts of the brain.  
On the perfusion images, there is no evidence of abnormal perfusion identified
in the region.  No increased perfusion is seen.

IMPRESSION:  Postoperative changes in the left frontal region without
recurrent enhancement.  The FLAIR abnormalities are stable.  No increased
perfusion is seen in the region.

!!remove
","EXAM:  MRI of the brain.

CLINICAL INFORMATION:  Patient with HIV enhancing lesions seen on the previous
study, for followup.

TECHNIQUE:  T1 sagittal and axial and FLAIR T2 susceptibility and diffusion
axial images were obtained before gadolinium.  T1 axial and MP-RAGE sagittal
images acquired following gadolinium.  Comparison was made with the MRI of
12/10/2014.


FINDINGS:  The previously noted left occipital and parietal rim-enhancing
lesions demonstrate no significant change in surrounding edema, but there is
less intense enhancement identified on the current study.  The lesions appear
slightly smaller.  The previously noted left basal ganglia lesion is
unchanged.  A subtle right occipital lobe lesion is also unchanged.  The
previously noted right temporal lobe lesion is less apparent on the current
study.  There is no new enhancing lesion seen.  No restricted diffusion or
midline shift identified.

IMPRESSION:  The previously noted multiple enhancing lesions demonstrate
slightly less intense enhancement on the current study, which may be due to
improvement or due to differences in technique.  Some of the previously noted
lesions are unchanged, for example, in the right occipital lobe, and right
basal ganglia.  The previously noted right temporal lesion is not apparent on
the current study.  Continued followup recommended.  The differential
diagnosis as discussed in detail previously.

!!remove
","EXAM:  MRI brain.

CLINICAL INFORMATION:  Patient with history of multiple concussions and prior
assault, now presenting with persistent headache and memory problems.

TECHNIQUE:  T1 sagittal and FLAIR T2 susceptibility and diffusion axial images
of the brain were acquired.

FINDINGS:  The ventricles and extra-axial spaces are normal in size.  There is
no evidence of midline shift, mass effect or hydrocephalus.  Small focus of T2
hyperintensity less than 3 mm is seen in the left periatrial white matter of
nonspecific nature.  No other focal abnormalities are seen.  There is no
evidence of chronic microhemorrhages.  The suprasellar and craniocervical
regions are unremarkable.

IMPRESSION:  No significant abnormalities are seen on MRI of the brain without
gadolinium.  A tiny nonspecific focus of T2 hyperintensity is seen in the right
periatrial white matter.

!!remove 
","HISTORY:  80 y/o female patient with history of meningioma.

TECHNIQUE:  MRI of the brain was performed with contrast as per wand protocol.

COMPARISON:  MRI brain with and without contrast as per departmental protocol
dated 12/10/2014.

FINDINGS:

Again seen is the meningioma arising from the right sphenoid bone, unchanged
in size and appearance, or mass effect on the ipsilateral frontal horn of the
lateral ventricle. There is stable relatively homogeneous enhancement.
Note is made of neuronavigational markers.

The remainder of the examination remains unchanged from the prior exam.

IMPRESSION:

Stable unchanged meningioma arising from the left sphenoid bone with stable
mass effect on the ipsilateral frontal horn.

!!remove
","HISTORY:  80 y/o male patient with intractable seizures.  Rule out
structural abnormality.

TECHNIQUE:  MRI of the brain was performed with and without IV contrast as per
""chronic seizure protocol.""

COMPARISON:  None.

FINDINGS:

The brain demonstrates normal signal intensity.  There is no evidence for
cortical dysplasia or heterotopia.  There is no evidence for mesial temporal
sclerosis.  There is no evidence abnormal low intensity on susceptibility
images to suggest hemorrhage.

Incidental note is made of a mildly enlarged sella with flattening of the
pituitary gland likely representing partial empty sella.

The ventricles are normal in size with no evidence for hydrocephalus.
Incidental note is made of an asymmetric enlarged left lateral ventricle,
likely normal variant.  The major vascular flow voids are unremarkable.

Orbital structures are unremarkable.  There is mucosal thickening and
opacification of the bilateral ethmoid air cells.  There is mucosal thickening
of the frontal sinuses and maxillary antrum.  There is a small retention cyst
in the right sphenoid sinus.  The mastoid air cells are clear.

IMPRESSION:

Unremarkable MRI of the head.  No evidence for cortical dysplasia,
heterotopia, or mesial temporal sclerosis.

